===================================================================
XSLT Transformations of Web Services Created with Previous Versions
===================================================================

.. warning:: This section is about the Web services created with previous
   version of the Denodo Platform.

In an environment with existing SOAP and REST clients, you do not need
to modify these clients to work with Virtual DataPort Web services. You
can define XSLT stylesheets (`XSL Transformations <https://www.w3.org/TR/xslt>`_)
to transform the incoming requests in order
to adapt them to the format that the Denodo Web services expect. You can
also define stylesheets to transform the responses of these services,
before sending them to the existing clients.

Follow these steps to define XSLT transformations for a Web service:

#. Edit a Web service and click on the **SOAP** tab or the **REST** tab
   depending on if you have to transform a SOAP or a REST operation.
#. Select the operation that you have to transform in the **Operation
   name** drop-down and click on **XSLT Transformations**.
#. Select the **Input XSLT Transformation** check box and write the
   stylesheet. This stylesheet will be applied to the incoming requests,
   to transform them into the format expected by the Virtual DataPort
   Web service.
   If this check box is cleared, the input will not be modified.
#. Select the **Output XSLT Transformation** check box and write the
   stylesheet. This stylesheet will be applied to the responses
   generated by the Denodo Web service, to transform them into the
   format expected by the existing SOAP client.
   If this check box is cleared, the input will not be modified.
#. Only for the SOAP operations: if the existing SOAP client sends the
   parameter ``SOAPAction`` with its requests and the parameter cannot
   be changed, select the **Incoming SOAPAction** check box and write
   it.
#. Click **Ok** and repeat these steps for each operation of the Web
   service that you want to transform.

See the appendix :ref:`Customizing Events and Public Render Parameters of
JSR-286 Portlets` for more details on how to generate these XSLT
stylesheets.
