=================================================
Tagsets and Scanners Included in the Distribution
=================================================

By default, ITPilot includes the following built-in tagsets:

-  All4\_6. Used by default by the process which generates DEXTL
   programs using examples. It defines a tag for every HTML tag.
-  All4\_6\_xxx. A set of pre-generated tagsets that represents the most
   commonly used tagsets. They define a tag for every HTML tag except
   for those that appear in their name. For example, all4\_6\_anchor
   recognizes all the HTML tags except the anchor tag <a>.



By default, ITPilot includes the following built-in scanners:

-  StandardFullLexer4\_6. Used by default by the process which generates
   DEXTL programs using examples. Uses the default tagset all4\_6. Makes
   use of the lexer type that keeps blank spaces between tags (see
   section :doc:`Lexer Types <./lexer_types>`).
-  AutogeneratedLexer4\_6\_x. A set of pre-generated scanners that
   represents the most commonly used scanners. They use a subset of the
   tagsets previously mentioned. Make use of the lexer type that keeps
   blank spaces between tags (see section :doc:`Lexer Types <./lexer_types>`).

Due to backwards compatibility reasons all the scanners of earlier
versions of ITPilot are included. Some of these scanners are considered
deprecated and **should not be used in new projects**:
StandardHTMLLexer, StandardHTMLLexerJS, StandardFormLexer,
StandardFormLexerJS and StandardLexerJS.



